Let's walk through an example of using one of these frameworks to
identify opportunities for data science within the business.
Consider the following scenario.
Specialty coffee retailer, Fantastic Coffee believes that data science might benefit
the business and would like to identify
data science project opportunities across the business operations.
Let's use Michael Porter's value chain as our framework for identifying
data science projects that might benefit Fantastic Coffee.
Let's first consider primary operations.
Regarding inbound logistics, Fantastic has contracts with
many long-term suppliers for the raw materials for their coffee and food items.
These items must be routed to each of Fantastic's many locations.
Data science projects might focus on either supply chain optimization or
logistics optimization to cut down costs associated with those two areas.
Operations in local Fantastic Coffee sites are run according to company policy.
Tracking time spent with various activities as well as
local labor costs could see data science projects to identify operational improvements.
Regarding outbound logistics, Fantastic Coffee
relies on retail sites that provide counter order service.
Some sites offer drive-through service as well.
Data science projects could focus on customer service optimization and
could also be used to identify sites that would
benefit from adding drive-through service.
Fantastic focuses its marketing on regional media and print advertising,
as well as advertising and offers through search engines and social media sites.
Data science projects could target the optimization of
these media strategies and could automate A/B testing of alternative marketing messages.
Fantastic emphasizes top quality customer service and has
traditionally selected and trained employees with service provision as a goal.
Data science could be used to identify
characteristics of potential employees that are most strongly
associated with high-quality service so that
identification and hiring of these candidates could be expedited.
Just as we did for Fantastic's primary operations,
we could use the value chain framework to identify data science opportunities
specific to support activities such as firm infrastructure,
human resource management, technology development, and procurement.
By using Michael Porter's value chain framework,
we've now identified several potential data science projects that
might benefit Fantastic Coffee across its business operations.